# node2025

Master Node JS & Deno.js, build REST APIs with Node.js, GraphQL APIs, add Authentication, use MongoDB, SQL & much more! course ==>

36. Understanding Event Driven Code Execution
38. Node.js - Looking Behind the Scenes
53. Restarting the Debugger Automatically After Editing our App
code to start server:
npm start
npm run start-server

npm install nodemon --save ==> prod dependencies
npm install nodemon --save-dev ==> dev dependencies
npm install --save express
npm i --save ejs pug express-handlebars  ==>to install different template engines pkgs

shift+alt+f  ===> format the document/page in vscode

passing routes params
using query params

Need to put most specific route first ahead of dynamic routes like :
router.get('/products/delete');
router.get('/products/:productId')

using dynamic query params to edit products:
http://localhost:3000/admin/edit-product/12345?edit=true

working ways::
route >> views >> controller >> model

SQL Database::
core characteristics :
1. Data Schema => All Data(in a table) has to fit!
2. Data Relations => one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many

NoSQL Databases::
Collections named as tablename in sql db.
Documents named as data inside the tables in sql db.
Documents are schemaless that means they have no proper/strict structure.
No/few relation/connections with collections. need to duplicate data in the collections.
Need to change the updated data in multiple places in each collections.
Advantages::
No need to join multiple tables together.
No need to add complex query/long code to manipulate the data which can impact performance issue.

A) SQL IS GOOD WHEN:
if you are storing where the relations are really important and where you want to have a split up across tables and where you want to have strong schemas, SQL can be perfect,
also not every part of your data is accessed multiple times per second.
You can have parts of your application where you manage general data.

Regarding the scaling, it's important that horizontal scaling often is very difficult or even impossible due to the way SQL works.

In general in SQL we use schemas, we also have relations,these are two core characteristics and data is typically distributed across many many tables which are then connected through relations.



B) NoSQL IS GOOD WHEN:
NoSQL is schemaless and has only a few relations if at all, the data is typically not distributed
across multiple collections but instead we work with merged or nested documents in an existing document, though we of course also have a couple of collections for the different features of our application typically. With NoSQL, horizontal scaling is easier

With NoSQL, horizontal scaling is easier,still something where you have to know what you do but there are cloud providers which do that for us so we don't have to know the ins and outs of that and in general, due to the way it works with less connections and so on, this is possible. And therefore we also get great performance for mass read and write requests and
NoSQL can be very performant in an application with high throughput.

C) Installation MySQL :: mysql site > download > MySQL Community (GPL) Downloads > MySQL Community Server,MySQL Workbench,MySQL Installer for Windows > MySQL Server 8.0.41 & MySQL Workbench 8.0.41

D) npm install --save mysql2

E) With sequelize, we no need to write complex query for fetching or inserting data from DB.
F) Sequelize is an object relational mapping library which simply means it does all the heavy lifting, all the SQL code behind the scenes for us and maps it into javascript objects with convenience methods which we can call to execute that behind the scenes SQL code so that we never have to write SQL code on our own.
G)We can then instantiate these models, so these classes so to say, we can execute the constructor functions or use utility methods to create let's say a new user object based on that model so we have a connection here and we can then run queries on that.
That could be that we save a new user but it could also be that we find all users as an example and here again, this always relates back to our model which we define with sequelize. And we can also associate our models.

core concepts of Sequelize::
Models ==> eg. User, Product
Instances ==> const user = User.build()
Queries ==> User.findAll()
Associations ==> User.hasMany(Product)

To Install Sequelize::
npm install --save mysql2
npm install --save sequelize

sequelize package is An ORM, or Object Relational Mapper.

Sequelize is a modern TypeScript and Node.js ORM for Oracle, Postgres, MySQL, MariaDB, SQLite and SQL Server, and more. Featuring solid transaction support, relations, eager and lazy loading, read replication and more.

MongoDB::
It uses JSON(BSON) ie Binary Json to save the data.

Relation options::
Embedded/Nested document : means data inside data like nested json.
References: lots of data duplication.

NoSQL Characteristics::
1. No data schema (no structure required)
2. Fewer data relations

MongoDB Atlas:: userid: chinmays password: EvhBfpV8JX2Lylev
userid: cadmin password: uCVheW93M151p5kg

connection string:: mongodb+srv://chinmays:<db_password>@cluster0.bcmob3z.mongodb.net/?retryWrites=true&w=majority&appName=Cluster0
mongodb+srv://chinmays:<db_password>@cluster0.bcmob3z.mongodb.net/?retryWrites=true&w=majority&appName=Cluster0

legacy cs:: mongodb://chinmays:<db_password>@ac-fhqoalq-shard-00-00.bcmob3z.mongodb.net:27017,ac-fhqoalq-shard-00-01.bcmob3z.mongodb.net:27017,ac-fhqoalq-shard-00-02.bcmob3z.mongodb.net:27017/?replicaSet=atlas-12fkkf-shard-0&ssl=true&authSource=admin&retryWrites=true&w=majority&appName=Cluster0

npm install --save mongodb

Installation noSQL s/w:: mongodb compass 

To connect with mongodb create a sample user first..

To configure .env file for DB connection safely::
npm install dotenv 

Tools used:: mySql, sequalize (mySQL ORM) Object Relational Mapping library, 
	     MongoDB, Mongoose (MongoDB ODM) Object Document Mapping library

Mongoose core concept::  (similar to sequelize of mysql)
    Schemas & Models ==> ie User, Product
    Instances        ==> const user = new User;
    Queries          ==> User.find()

pkg installed :: 
npm install --save mongoose

Sessions & Cookies Module::
How to save information that the user is logged in by cookies.

Session stored in server side & Cookie stored in client site.

npm install --save express-session
npm i --save  connect-mongodb-session 

To incripts the password used bcryptjs
npm i --save bcryptjs

CSRF Attacks:: Cross-Site Request Forgery
It will provide security to our own views. will use token for the security reason.

npm install --save csurf

By redirect, we are giving a brand new request where it forgets the authentication, security and all errors.

To save error data accross request, we need a session.

npm install --save connect-flash

Authentication::
- Authentication means that not every visitor of the page can view & interact with everything.
- Authentication has to happen on the server-side & builds up on sessions.
- You can protect routes by checking the (session-controlled) login status right before you access a controller action.

Security & UX::
- Passwords should be stored in a hashed form.
- CSRF attackes are a real issue & you should therefore include CSRF protection in ANY application you build.
- For a better user experience, you can flash data/messages into the session which you then can display in your views.

Using Third-party service (Mail server) to send mail to user from node server. will use sendgrid.
there are many alternatives, MailChimp, AWS, SCS and you can google for nodemailing and your favorite mailing service to find tutorials on how to implement it.

recovery code for sendgrid:: CGGGD2TSYYLE2QT641B3E9RN

npm i --save nodemailer nodemailer-sendgrid-transport

Password Resetting::
- Password resetting has to be implemented in a way that prevents users from resetting random user accounts.
- Reset tokens have to be random, unguesssable & unique.

Authorization::
- Authorization is an important part of pretty much every app.
- Not every authenticated user should be able to do everything.
- Instead, you want to lock down access by restricting the permissions of your users.

Errors:
Different Types of Errors::
- 1) Technical/Network Errors - 
eg. MongoDB server is down.
Show error page to user.

- 2) Expected Errors - 
eg. File can't be read, database operation fails.
Inform user, possibly retry.

- 3) Bugs/Logical Errors - 
eg. User object used when it doesn't exist.
Fix during Development.

Working with Errors::
**Error is thrown ==> 
A) Synchronous Code: try-catch
B) ASynchronous Code: then() - catch()

1) Directly handle error 
2) Use Express error handling function 

**No error is thrown ==>
A) Validate values

1) Throw error
2) Directly handle "error"

**ways to End of Error Handling::
1. Error Page(eg. 500 page)
2. Intended Page/Response with error information
3. Redirect

- The Sync error will reach to our centralized 500 error with "throw new Error('error name')"
- The Async error will not reach to centralized 500 error with "next(new Error(err))"

**<<ORDER of routes or app.use() is very very important.>>

It lets you combine staged changes with the previous commit instead of creating an entirely new commit. It can also be used to simply edit the previous commit message without changing its snapshot.

git commit --amend -m "using the Error handling middleware correctly updated"

To commit the changes, run the below. This updates the original commit that introduced the secret instead of creating a new commit.

git commit --amend --all

If the commit is within the last few commits (e.g., last 5), do:
git rebase -i HEAD~5 

In the interactive editor, find the line with: 
pick 4e63054 Remove secret key (or whatever the message is)
Change pick to drop like this:
drop 4e63054 Remove secret key      :wq
If you already made changes (like dropped a commit or edited one), just run:
git rebase --continue
to edit the rebase file again:
git rebase --edit-todo

Errors & Http Response Codes::
1. success : 200, (Operation Success)
             201, (Success, resource created)
             2xx

2. Redirect: 300, 301, 3xx (Moved permanently)
3. Client-side error: 401, (Not authenticated)
                      403, (Not authorized)
                      404, (Not found)
                      422, 4xx (invalid input in form)
4. Server-side error: 500, 5xx (Server-side error)

============================================ Status code
1×× Informational:

100 Continue
101 Switching Protocols
102 Processing

2×× Success:
200 OK
201 Created
202 Accepted
203 Non-authoritative Information
204 No Content
205 Reset Content
206 Partial Content
207 Multi-Status
208 Already Reported
226 IM Used

3×× Redirection:
300 Multiple Choices
301 Moved Permanently
302 Found
303 See Other
304 Not Modified
305 Use Proxy
307 Temporary Redirect
308 Permanent Redirect

4×× Client Error:
400 Bad Request
401 Unauthorized
402 Payment Required
403 Forbidden
404 Not Found
405 Method Not Allowed
406 Not Acceptable
407 Proxy Authentication Required
408 Request Timeout
409 Conflict
410 Gone
411 Length Required
412 Precondition Failed
413 Payload Too Large
414 Request-URI Too Long
415 Unsupported Media Type
416 Requested Range Not Satisfiable
417 Expectation Failed
418 I'm a teapot
421 Misdirected Request
422 Unprocessable Entity
423 Locked
424 Failed Dependency
426 Upgrade Required
428 Precondition Required
429 Too Many Requests
431 Request Header Fields Too Large
444 Connection Closed Without Response
451 Unavailable For Legal Reasons
499 Client Closed Request

5×× Server Error:
500 Internal Server Error
501 Not Implemented
502 Bad Gateway
503 Service Unavailable
504 Gateway Timeout
505 HTTP Version Not Supported
506 Variant Also Negotiates
507 Insufficient Storage
508 Loop Detected
510 Not Extended
511 Network Authentication Required
599 Network Connect Timeout Error

Source: https://httpstatuses.com/
====================================================
Multer Third Party Package::
Multer parses incoming requests but this package parses incoming requests for files, 
so it is able to handle file requests as well or requests with mixed data, with text and file data.

npm install --save multer

multer used as another middleware.

To create pdf invoice file on the fly, need to install pkg
npm install --save pdfkit

**What are asynchronous request(Async request) & use ?
Now the idea behind asynchronous requests is that you do send the request but that request typically
contains just some data in a special format named json and that data is sent to the server, to a certain url or a route
accepted by that server, so that logic doesn't change. The server can do whatever it wants to do with that and then we return a response and that response is also returnedn behind the scenes, so it's not a new html page that needs to be rendered,
it's instead again just some data in that json format typically. And that is how client server can communicate through javascript,
so through client side javascript and the server side logic without reloading or rebuilding the page,
without exchanging a new html page. And that allows you to do some work behind the scenes without interrupting the user flow, without reloading the page.

**What is JSON?

JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation and a typically JSON data structure looks like this:

{
    "name": "Your Name",
    "age": 29,
    "courses": [
        "angular-the-complete-guide",
        "react-the-complete-guide"
    ],
    "profile": {
        "joined": "2017-05-21",
        "courses": 2
    },
    "averageRating": 4.8,
    "active": true
}
It looks a lot like a normal JavaScript object, but one important difference is that all key names are enclosed by double quotation marks (").

Besides that, you can store text (string), numeric (integers and floats) and boolean data as well as nested objects and arrays.

Payment Process::
1. Collect Payment Method
2. Verify Payment Method
3. Charge Payment Method
4. Manage Payments
5. Process Order in App

How Stripe works::
client(Browser) --> Collect Credit Card Data --> Stripe Servers (3rd Party) --> (Token) --> Server(Node App) -->
Create Payment Data --> Stripe Servers(3rd Party)

npm install --save stripe

Working with REST Apis:: 
REST stands for REPRESENTATIONAL STATE TRANSFER. 
The simple translation I like to use is that we transfer data instead of user interfaces.

Thus far in the course, we always rendered the html page on the server and that of course did not only include the data but also already the user interface.

It's a common pattern for a lot of web applications but for other applications, you might want to build a decoupled frontend or you might need to and then rest APIs are the solution.

It's also important to highlight that only the response and the request data changes but not the general
server side logic.

So everything you learned about validating, about reaching out to databases, about handling files on the
server, all these things don't change. often, rest APIs and traditional web apps where you render the views on the server are seen as two totally different things. but They are not, they only differ in the response and in the kind of data you expect but they don't differ in what happens on the server, besides the fact that you don't render the view there and that is really important.

What are "REST APIs"? :: (Not every frontend(UI) requires HTML page eg: Mobile apps, SPA web app, Service Apis)
    such web applications are very popular because they give us a mobile app like feeling. We click around
and we don't have to wait for a page refresh, we always stay on the same page and only the data that gets rendered changes and therefore only the data is exchanged behind the scenes, all the user interface rendering is done through browser side javascript. The popular user interface of popular frontend you build these days
react, on angular, on vue which are popular browser side javascript frameworks that you can use to build such user interfaces. 

Frontend(UI) is decoupled from the backend(server).

Why use/build REST APIs? ::
1) Accessing Data with REST APIs::
Data Transfer Format ways :: HTML, Plain Text, XML, JSON 

2) Routing:: 
    <<POST /post, GET /posts, GET /posts/:postId  ===> API ENDPOINTS (HTTP METHODS & RESPECTIVE PATH)>>
Now in the REST world or in the API world, we like to call these things here API andpoints,
so when you hear me talk about an API endpoint, I'm talking about the combination of a http method like post and get and the respective path. These are the endpoints we defined on our rest API and we defined a logic that should execute on the server when a request reaches such an endpoint.


but when working with the browser only and not with javascript in the browser but just with forms and links, then we only have get and post available. These are the two methods the browser natively knows or the browser html elements know.

Http Methods (Http Verbs)::
1/ GET : Get a resource from the server.
2/ POST: Post a resource to the server(ie. create or append resource)
3/ PUT : Put a resource onto the server(ie. create or overwrite a resource)
4/ PATCH : Update parts of an existing resource on the server
5/ DELETE : Delete a resource on the server
6/ OPTIONS : Determine whether follow-up Request is allowed(sent automatically)

Core REST concepts & principles ::
2 core principles : 
a) Uniform Interface :: Clearly defined API endpoints with clearly defined request + response data structure.
b) Stateless Interactions :: Server & client don't store any connection history, every request is handled seperately. 
optionals concepts::
c) Cacheable :: Servers may set caching headers to allow the client to cache responses.
d) Client-Server :: Server & client are separated, client is not concerned with persistent data storage.
e) Layered System :: Server may forward requests to other APIs.
f) Code on Demand :: Executable code may be transferred from server to client.

First REST API::
npm init
git init
.gitignore :: added node_modules
npm install --save express
npm install --save-dev nodemon
create file app.js
add "start":"nodemon app.js" in scripts inside package.json
npm install --save body-parser :: used to pass the incoming request body.
create routes folder & will not create views in server.
create feed.js file inside routes folder.
create controllers folder with creating feed.js file inside it.

**REST never render views or return html. so will not see res.render() in the code. 
**We will return a JSON response by using res.JSON(). Json is a method provided by expressjs that allows us to conveniently return a response with json data, with the right headers being set and so on. We can pass a normal javascript object to json and it will be converted to the json format and sent back as a response to the client who sent the request.

Now when sending json responses, we also want to send the status code explicitly, 200 would be the default.

CORS:: Cross-Origin-Resource-Sharing (367 & 368 videos note)
client & server running on Same domail like localhost:3000 has no issues.
client & server has different domain then CORS errors generated like No "Access-Control-Allow-Origin" header.
This error can be solved on the server side only by setting some headers like below::

app.use((req, res, next) => {
    res.setHeader('Access-Control-Allow-Origin', '*'); <!--  * is used to allow all origin the domains/sites" -->
    res.setHeader('Access-Control-Allow-Methods', 'GET, POST, DELETE, PUT, PATCH');
    res.setHeader('Access-Control-Allow-Headers', 'Content-Type, Authorization');
    next();
});

for example you can send Ajax requests through libraries like axios and if you are building a mobile app, you might have a totally different object or helper methods for sending such requests in Android, in swift.

Working with REST APIs Module::
Planning a REST API
CRUD Operations & Endpoints
Validation
Image Upload
Authentication





















